---
title: "QFSAE VCU PCB - V1"
date: 2024-02-01
categories: [stm32, qfsae, altium, qfsae_vcu]
tags: [pcb]
author: Jacob
image:
  path: /assets/fsae/VCUV2/3dBoard.png
  alt: 3D Render of the PCB
---

## Preface
This article serves as a record of the design of the first Vehicle Control Unit (VCU) for the Queen's Formula SAE Racing Team. It is unlikely that the designs featured within this article will ever be produced. Nevertheless, it was an important part of the VCU development process and of my learning.

## Introduction
The first stage in designing this board was to create the functional requirements. 

Once the functional requirements were completed, components were selected and the PCB layout was done. As of writing this article, routing has not yet begun. As previously mentioned, this board only serves as a prototype.

## Functional Requirements
Below is a list of the functional requirements determined for this board:
  - 2 CAN Bus Interfaces
  - 4 PWM Inputs (Wheel Speed Sensors)
  - 5 12V Analog Inputs
    - 2x Break Sensor
    - Steering Sensor
    - 2x Throttle Pedal
  - 3 5V Analog Inputs
    - Steering Sensor
    - Throttle Pedal
  - 8 24V Outputs
    - DataLogger
    - 2x Inverters
    - Dashboard
    - HV Relays
    - 2x Coolant Pumps
    - Break Light
  - 6 12V Outputs
    - BMS
    - Wheel Speeds (Front & Reverse)
    - Break Sensors
    - Throttle Pedal
    - Safety Lights
  - 


The team currently uses the STM32F446 as the main Microcontroller for many of its boards. As such, the decision was made to stick with this MCU. Generally, the 64 pin LQFP (Quad Flat Pack) package, but due to the pin requirement of this board, the decision to switch to a 100 pin package was made.